The President: Hi, everybody.
This week, after five years
of effort with eleven other
nations, we reached
agreement on a new trade
deal that promotes American
values and protects
American workers.
There's a reason this
Trans-Pacific Partnership
took five years
to negotiate.
I wanted to get the best
possible deal for
American workers.
And that is what we've done.
Here's why it matters.
Ninety-five percent of the
world's consumers live
outside our borders
-- 95 percent.
They want to buy
American products.
They want our cars;
our music; our food.
And if American businesses
can sell more of their
products in those markets,
they can expand and support
good jobs here at home.
So it's no wonder that
exports played a huge role
in helping America recover
from the Great Recession.
In fact, last year, we set
a new record for American
exports for the fifth year
in a row, selling more than
$2 trillion in
goods and services.
Our exports support roughly
12 million American jobs --
and they're jobs that
typically pay better than
other jobs.
But here's the thing:
Outdated trade rules put our
workers at a disadvantage.
And TPP will change that.
Right now, other countries
can cut their costs by
setting lower standards
to pay lower wages.
This trade agreement, TPP,
will change that, holding
partner countries to higher
standards and raising wages
across a region that makes
up nearly 40 percent of the
global economy.
Right now, other countries
charge foreign taxes on
goods that are
made in America.
Japan, for example, puts a
38 percent tax on American
beef before it even
reaches the market.
Malaysia puts a 30 percent
tax on American auto parts.
Vietnam puts taxes as high
as 70 percent on every car
American automakers
sell there.
Those taxes and other trade
barriers put our workers at
a disadvantage.
It makes it more expensive
to make goods here and sell
them over there.
Well, TPP is going
to change that.
It eliminates more than
18,000 of these taxes on
American goods and services.
And that way, we're boosting
America's farmers, ranchers,
manufacturers, and small
business owners -- make it
easier for them to sell
their products abroad.
That's what it means to
level the playing field for
American workers
and businesses.
And when the playing field
is level, and the rules are
fair, Americans can
out-compete anybody
in the world.
Now, I'm the first person
who will say that past trade
agreements haven't always
lived up to their promise.
Sometimes they've been
tilted too much in the
direction of other countries
and we haven't gotten a
fair deal.
And that makes folks
suspicious of any new
trade initiatives.
But let's be clear.
Our future depends not on
what past trade deals did
wrong, but on doing
new trade deals right.
And that's what
the TPP does.
It includes the strongest
labor standards in history,
from requiring fair hours to
prohibiting child labor and
forced labor.
It includes the strongest
environmental standards
in history.
All these things level
the playing field for us,
because if they have to
follow these rules, then
they can't undercut us and
sell their products cheaper
because they're
violating these rules.
And unlike past trade
agreements, these standards
are actually enforceable.
Without this agreement,
competitors that don't share
our values, like China,
will write the rules of the
global economy.
They'll keep selling into
our markets and try to lure
companies over there;
meanwhile they're going to
keep their markets
closed to us.
That's what's been going
on for the last 20 years.
That's what's contributed
so much to outsourcing.
That's what has made it
easier for them to compete
against us.
And it needs to change.
With this Trans-Pacific
Partnership, we are writing
the rules for the
global economy.
America is leading
in the 21st century.
Our workers will be
the ones who get ahead.
Our businesses will
get a fair deal.
And those who oppose passing
this new trade deal are
really just accepting a
status quo that everyone
knows puts us at
a disadvantage.
Look, you don't have
to take my word for it.
In the coming weeks and
months, you'll be able to
read every word of this
agreement online well before
I sign it.
You'll be able to see for
yourself how this agreement
is better than past trade
deals -- and how it's better
for America's
working families.
You can learn more
at WhiteHouse.gov.
And I look forward to
working with both parties in
Congress to approve this
deal -- and grow our economy
for decades to come.
Thanks, everybody.
And have a great weekend.